README.md, before:

# CCIAF Playwright Tests

Automated end-to-end tests for the **CCIAF** (Commercial Continuous Improvement Assessment Framework) platform using [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/).

CCIAF is an internal platform developed by the Cabinet Office to assess commercial maturity across the public sector. Learn more at [GOV.UK CCIAF Guidance](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/commercial-operating-standards-for-government/commercial-continuous-improvement-assessment-framework-onboarding-guidance-v23-html).

## Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v18 or higher)
- Access to the CCIAF Salesforce environment
- Salesforce credentials with 2FA enabled

## Installation

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

2. Install Playwright browsers:
```bash
npx playwright install
```

## Authentication Setup

This project uses Playwright's [authentication state management](https://playwright.dev/docs/auth) to handle Salesforce login with 2FA. You authenticate once and the session is saved and reused across all tests.

### First Time Setup

1. Create a `.env` file in the project root:

```env
SALESFORCE_USERNAME=your-username@example.gov.uk
SALESFORCE_PASSWORD=your-password
```

2. Run the authentication setup:

```bash
npx playwright test --project=setup --headed
```

The browser will open, automatically enter your credentials, and wait for you to manually enter the 2FA verification code. After successful login, the session is saved and all future tests will use it automatically.

### Re-authenticating

If your session expires (you'll see login pages during tests), simply re-run:

```bash
npx playwright test --project=setup --headed
```

## Running Tests

### Run all tests
```bash
npx playwright test
```

### Run tests with visible browser
```bash
npx playwright test --headed
```

### Run a specific test
```bash
npx playwright test tests/bvcreatehistoryrecord.spec.ts
```

### Run tests in UI mode (interactive)
```bash
npx playwright test --ui
```

### View test report
```bash
npx playwright show-report
```

## Project Structure

```
├── tests/
│   ├── auth.setup.ts           # Authentication setup
│   └── *.spec.ts              # Test files
├── playwright/.auth/           # Saved authentication state (gitignored)
├── playwright.config.ts        # Playwright configuration
└── .env                       # Environment variables (gitignored)
```

## Security Notes

- The `.env` file and `playwright/.auth/` directory are gitignored
- Never commit authentication files or credentials to version control
- The saved session file contains cookies that could be used to access your account

## Additional Resources

- [Playwright Documentation](https://playwright.dev/)
- [Playwright Authentication Guide](https://playwright.dev/docs/auth)

Commit message:

Setup auth for CCIAF frontend

README.md, after:

# CCIAF Playwright Tests

Automated end-to-end tests for the **CCIAF** (Commercial Continuous Improvement Assessment Framework) platform using [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/).

CCIAF is an internal platform developed by the Cabinet Office to assess commercial maturity across the public sector. Learn more at [GOV.UK CCIAF Guidance](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/commercial-operating-standards-for-government/commercial-continuous-improvement-assessment-framework-onboarding-guidance-v23-html).

## Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v18 or higher)
- Access to the CCIAF Salesforce environment
- Salesforce credentials with 2FA enabled

## Installation

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

2. Install Playwright browsers:
```bash
npx playwright install
```

## Authentication Setup

This project uses Playwright's [authentication state management](https://playwright.dev/docs/auth) to handle authentication for both Salesforce backend (with 2FA) and GovUK frontend. You authenticate once for each and the sessions are saved and reused across all tests.

### First Time Setup

1. Create a `.env` file in the project root:

```env
# Salesforce Backend Authentication
SALESFORCE_USERNAME=your-username@example.gov.uk
SALESFORCE_PASSWORD=your-password

# GovUK Frontend Authentication
GOVUK_EMAIL=your-email@example.com
GOVUK_PASSWORD=your-password
```

2. Run the authentication setup:

**For Salesforce Backend (with 2FA):**
```bash
npx playwright test auth.setup --headed
```

The browser will open, automatically enter your credentials, and wait for you to manually enter the 2FA verification code. After successful login, the session is saved to `playwright/.auth/salesforce.json`.

**For GovUK Frontend:**
```bash
npx playwright test frontendauth.setup --headed
```

The browser will open, automatically sign in with your credentials, and save the session to `playwright/.auth/govuk-frontend.json`.

**Or run both at once:**
```bash
npx playwright test --project=setup --headed
```

### Re-authenticating

If your session expires (you'll see login pages during tests), simply re-run the appropriate setup command above.

## Running Tests

### Run all tests
```bash
npx playwright test
```

### Run tests with visible browser
```bash
npx playwright test --headed
```

### Run a specific test
```bash
npx playwright test tests/bvcreatehistoryrecord.spec.ts
```

### Run tests in UI mode (interactive)
```bash
npx playwright test --ui
```

### View test report
```bash
npx playwright show-report
```

## Project Structure

```
├── tests/
│   ├── auth.setup.ts           # Salesforce backend authentication setup
│   ├── frontendauth.setup.ts   # GovUK frontend authentication setup
│   └── *.spec.ts              # Test files
├── playwright/.auth/           # Saved authentication state (gitignored)
│   ├── salesforce.json         # Salesforce session
│   └── govuk-frontend.json     # GovUK frontend session
├── playwright.config.ts        # Playwright configuration
└── .env                       # Environment variables (gitignored)
```

## Security Notes

- The `.env` file and `playwright/.auth/` directory are gitignored
- Never commit authentication files or credentials to version control
- The saved session file contains cookies that could be used to access your account

## Additional Resources

- [Playwright Documentation](https://playwright.dev/)
- [Playwright Authentication Guide](https://playwright.dev/docs/auth)
